2019/11/25 Mon.

The Last Supper (1945). But he's almost equally famous for his astonishing multiplicity of talents: he dabbled in architecture, sculpture, engineering, geology, hydraulics and the military arts, all with success, and in his spare time doodled parachutes and fiying machine that resembled inventions of the 19th and 20th centuries.

The first aerial photograph was taken from a balloon during the U.S. civil war. Olive oil was used foe washing the body in the ancient Mediterranean world. In 1801, 20 percent of the peopie in the U.S. were slaves. Slaves under the last emperors of China wore pitails so they could be picked out quickly. Dineering guests during the medieval times in England were expected to bring their own knives to the table. Traffic engineering was not developed in London, New York or Paris, but rather in ancient Rome. The Romens, of course, were noted road builders. The Appians Way, for examples, stretched 350 miles from the Eternal City to Brundisium. In Rome itself there were actually stop signs and even alternate-side-of-street parking. Untile the 19th century, solid blocks of tea were used as money in Siberia.

Being rude to a telephone operator in Prussia was once a crime. In 1908, a respected citizen was reprimanded by the government after becoming  exasperated with an operator and saying."My dear girl"! In Thailand, the left hand is considered unclean, so you should  not eat with it. Also, pointing with one finger is considered rude and is only done when pointing to objected or animals, never humans.

Americans on the average eat 18 acres of pizza every day. Banging your head against a wall uses 150 calories an hour. Contrary to popular belief, the British flags is not called "The Union Jack" it is actually called "The Union Flag". It's only called the Union Jack when out at sea on navy ships. You are most likely to get murdered at Christmas time due to more alcohols being drunk. Merry Christmas.

Prussian officer in his house in Cologne in 1848. Marx had friends among the German labor unions, and he was considered a threat to the autocrats. Dressed in his bathrobe, he forced the officers out at the point of a revolver, which, it turned out, was not loaded.

already married. The Main Library at Indiana University sinks over an inch every year because when it was built, engineerings failed to take into account the weight of all the books that would occupy the building. The electric chair was invented by a dentist.

The Guniss Bookof of Records holds the record for being the book most often stolen from public libraries. If you removed the stomach, the spleen, 75% of the liver, 80% of the intestines, one kidney, one lung, and virtually every organ from the pelvic and groin area, the human body would still be able to survive. In 10 minutes, a hurricane releases more energy than all of the world's nuclear weapsons combined.

In Italy, it is illegal to make coffins out of anything except nutshells or wood. "To prevent violence"it was at one time customary at certain phases of the moon to chain and flog inmates of Englands's notorious Bedlam Hospital. In Milan, Italy, when an operator dialled a wrong number, the phone company fined the operator. In Hartford Connecticut, it is illegal for a husband to kiss his wife on Sundays.

In England, the Speaker of the House is not allowed to speak. If a statue in the park of a person on horse has both front legs in the air, the person died in battle¡F if the horse has one front leg in the air, the person died as a result of wounds received in battle¡F if thehorse has all four legs on the ground, the person died of natural causes. Peanuts are one of the ingredients of dynamite.

When Heated" Found on the instruction sheet of a Conair Pro Style 1600 hair dryer: "WARNING: Do not use in shower. Never use while sleeping." Found on Bat Man The Animated Series Armor Set Halloween costume box: "PARENT: Please exercise caution, mask and chest plate are not protective¡F cape does not enable wearer to fly."

Virginia O'Hanlon Douglas was the eight-year-old girl who, in 1897, asked the staff of The New York Sun weather Santa Claus existed. In the now-famous editorial, Francis Church assured Virginia that yes, indeed, "there is a Santa Claus. "The first dictionary of American English was pulished on April 14th, 1828, by - who else? - Noah Webster. No automobile made after 1924 should be designated as antique.

---------------------------------
108/11/26 Tue.

the child reachers 2-6 years of ago. Modern records do not compare with that of St Simison the younger called stylites  a monk who spent the final 45 years of his life living at the top of  youngers called stylies a monk who spent the final 45 years of his life living at the top of a stone pillar on the hill of wonders near Antioch in Syria!

Anciect Greeks wove majoram into funeral wreaths and put them on the graves of loved ones. The wreaths served as prayers for the happinese of the deceased in a future life. Breaking of a glass is traditional in some wedding ceremonies. This custom, and for some it is the represents the fragility of a relationship.

The minimum age set in the U.S. Constitution for the President of the United States is 35. In Athens, Greece, a diver's license can be taken away by law if the driver is deemed eithers "unbathed" or "poorly dressed". Impotence is grounds for divorce in 24 U.S. stases. The murder rate in the United State is 200 times greater than in Japan. In Japan no private citizen can buy a handgun legally.

The British once went to war over a sailor's ear. It happened in 1739, when Britains launched hostilities against Spain because a Spanish officer had supposedly sliced off the ear of a ship's captain named Robert Jenkins. Alexander Hamilton and his son, Philip, both died on the same spot, and bothduring dules. Philip went first, 3 years before his fathers would be killed in that field by Aaron Burr.

The Last Supper (1945). But he's almost equally famous for his astonishing multiplics of talents: he dabbled in architeture, sculpture, engineering, geolory, hydraulics and the muilitary arts, all with success, and in his spare time doodled parachutes and flying machines that resembled inventions of the 19th and 20th centuries. 

---------------------------------
108/11/27 Wed.

The first aerial photograph  was taken from a ballon during the U.S. civil war. Olive oil was used for washing the body in the ancient Mediterrance world. In 1801, 20 percent of the people in the U.S. were slaves. Slaves under the last emperor of China wore pigtails so they could be picket out quickly. Dinner guests during the medieval times in England were expected to bring their own knives to the table. Traffic engineering was not developed in London, New York or Paris, but rather in ancient Rome. the Romans, of course, were noted road builders. The Appian Way, for examples, stretched 350 miles from the Eternal City to Brundisium. In Rome itself there were actually stop signs and even alternate-side-of-the-street parking. Untile the 19th century, solid blocks of tea were used as mony in Siberia.

Being  rude to telephone operator in Prussia was once a crime. In 1908, a respected citizen was reprimanded by the government after becoming exasperated with an operator and saying "My dear girl"! In Thailand, the left hand is considered unclean, so you should not eat with it. Also, pointing with one finger is considered rude and is only done when pointing to objects or animals, never humans.

Americans on the average eat 18 acres of pizza every day. Banging your head against a wall uses 150 calories an hour. Contrary to popular belief, the British flag is not called "The Union Jack" it is actually called "The Union Flag". It's only called the Union Jack when out at sea on navy ships. You are most likely to get murdered at Christmas time due to more alcohol being drunk. Merry Christmas.

Prussian officers in his house in Cologne in 1848. Marx had friends among the German labor unions, and he was considered a threat to autocrats. Dressed in his bathrobe, he force the officers out at the point of a revolver, which, it turned out was not loaded.

already married. The Main Library  at Indiana University sinks over an inch every year because when it was built, engineers failed to take into account the weight of all the books that would occupy the building. The electric chair was invented by a dentist.

The Guinness Book of Records holds the record for being the book most often stolen from public libraries. If you removed the stomach, the spleen, 75% of the liver, 80% of the intestines, one kidney, one lung, and virtually every organ from the pelvic and groin aream the human body would still be able tosurvive. 10 minutes, a hurricane release more energy than all of the world's nuclear weapsons combined.

---------------------------------
108/11/28 Thu.

In Itatly, it is illegal to make coffines out of anything except nutshells or wood. "To prevent violence" it was at one time customary at certain phase of the moon to chain and flog inmates of England's notorious Bedlam Hospital. In Milan, Italy, when an operator dialled a wrong number, the phone company fined the operator. In Hartfored Connecticut, it is illegal for a husband to kiss his wife on Sundays.

In England, the Speaker of the House is not allowed to speak. If a statue in the park of a person on a horse has both front legs in the air, the person died in battle; if the horse has one front leg in the air, the person died as a result of wounds received in battle; if the horse has all four legs on the gorund, the person died of natural causes. Peanuts are one of the ingredients of dynamite.

When Heated" Found on the instruction sheet of a Conair Pro Style 1600 hair dryer: "WARNING: Do not use in shower. Never use while sleeping. "Found on Bat Man The Animated Series Armor Set Hallowwwn costume box: Please exercise caution, mask and cheast plate are not protective; cape does not enable wearerto fly."
 
Virginia O'Hanolon Douglas was the eight-year-old girl who, In the now-famous editional, Francis Church assured Virginia that yes, indeed, "there is a Santa Claus." The first dicitionary of Americans English was published on April 14th, 1828, by - who else? - Noah Webster. No automobile made after 1924 should be designated as antique.

the child reaches 2-6 years of age. Modern records do not compare with that of St Simeson the younger called stylites a monk who spent the final 45 years of his life living at the of a stone pillar on the hill wonders near Antioch in Syria!

Ancient Greeks wove majoram into funeral wreaths and put them on the graves of loved ones. The wreaths served as prayers for happiness of the deceased in a future life. Breaking of a glass is traditional in some wedding ceremonies. This custom symbolizes different things. To some it is the destruction of the temple in Jerusalem, and for some it id the represents the fragility of a relationship.

The minimum age set in the U.S. Constitution for the President of the United States is 35. Athens, Greece, a driver's license can be takenaway by law if the driver is deemed either "unbathed" or "poorly dressed". Impotence is grounds for divorce in 24 U.S. states. The murder rate in the United State is 200 times greater than in Japan no private citizen can buy a handgun legally.

The British once went to war over a sailor's ear. It happened in 1739, when Britain launched hostilities against Spain because a Spanish officer had supposedlly sliced off the ear of a ship's captain named Roboert Jenkines. Alexander Hamilton and his son, Philip, both died on the same spot, and both during duels. Philip went first, 3 years before his father would his father would be killed in that same field by Aaron Burr.
 
---------------------------------
108/11/30 Sat.

The Last Supper (1495). But he's almost equally famous for his astonishing multiplicity of talents: he dabbled in architecture, sculpture, engineering, geology, hydraulics and the military arts, all with success, and in his spare time doodled parachutes and flying machines that resembled inventions of the 19th and 20th centuries.

The first aerial photograph was taken from a ballon during the U.S. civil war. Olive oil was used for washing the body in the ancient Mediterranean world. In 1801, 20 percent of the people in the U.S. were slaves. Slaves under the last emperors of China wore pigtails so they could be picked out quickly. Dinner guests during the medieval time in England were expected to bring their own knives to the table. Traffic engineering was not developed in London, New York or Paris, but rather in ancient Rome. The Romans, of course, werer noted road builders. The Appian Way, for example, stretched 350 miles from the Eternal City to Brundisium. In Rome itself there were actually stop signs and even alternate-side-of-the-street parking. Until the 19th century, solid blocks of tea were used as money in Siberia.

Being rude to a telephone operator in Prussia was once a crime. In 1908, a respected citizen was reprimanded by the government after becoming exasperated with an operator and saying "My dear girl"! In Thailand, the left hand is considered unclean, so you should not eat with it. Also, pointing with once finger is coinsidered rude and is only done when opinting to objects or animals, never humans.

Americans on the average eat 18 acres of pizza every day. Banging your head against a wall uses 150 calories an hour. Contrary to popular belief, the British flag is not called "The Union Jack" it is ctually called "The Union Flag". It's only called the Union Jack when out at sea on navy ships. You are most likely to get murdered at Christmas time due to more alcohol being drunk. Merry Christmas.

Prussian officers in his house in Cologne in 1848. Marx had friends among the German labor unions, and he was considered a threat to the autocrats. Dressed in his bathrobe, he forced the officers out at the point of a revolver, which, it turned out, was not loaded.

alresdy married. The Main Library at Indiana University sinks over an inch every year because shen it was built, engineers failed to take into account the weight of all the books that would occupy the building. The electric chair was invented by a dentist.

The Guinness Book of Records holds the record for being the book most often stolen from public libraries. If you removed the stomach, the spleen, 75% of the liver, 80% of the intestines, one kidney, one lung, and virtually every organ from the pelvic and groin area, the human body would still be able to survive. In 10 minutes, a hurricane releases more energy than all of the world's nuclear weapons combined.

In Italy, it is illegal to make coffines out of anything except nutshells or wood. "To prevent violence" it was at one time customary at certain phases of the moon to chain and flog inmates of England's notorious Bedlam Hospital. In Milan, Italy, when an operator dialled a wrong number, the phone company fined the operator. In Hartfound Connecticut, it is illegal for a husband to kiss his wife on Sundays.

In England, the Speaker of the House is not allowed to speak. If a staatue in the park of a person on a horse has both front legs in the air, the person died in battle; if the horse has one front legs in the air, the person died as a result of wounds received in battle; if the horse has all four legs on the ground, the person died of natural causes. Peanuts are one of the ingredients of dynamite.

---------------------------------
108/12/01 Sun.

When Heated" Found on the instruction sheet of a Conair Pro Stytle 1600 hair dryer: "WARNING: Do not use in shower. Never use while sleeping. "Found use while sleeping. "Found on Bat Man The Animated Series Armor Set Halloween costume box: "PARENT: Please exercise caustion, mask and chest plate are not protective; cape does not enable wearer to fly."

Virginia O'Hanlon Douglas was the eight-year-old girl who, in 1897, asked the staff of The New York Sun whether Santa Claus existed. In the now-famous editorial, Francis Church assured Virginia that yes, indeed, "there is a Santa Claus." The first dictionary of American English was published on April 14th, 1828, by - who wlse? - Noah Website. No automobile made after 1924 should be designated as antique.

the child reaches 2-6 years of age. Modern records do not compare with that of St Simeson the younger called stylites a monk who spent the final 45 years of his life living at the top of a stone piller on the hill of wonders near Antioch in Syria!

Ancient Greeks wove majoram into funeral wreaths and put them on the graves of loved ones. The wreaths served as prayers for the happiness of the deceased in a future life. Breaking of a glass is traditional in some wedding ceremonies. This custom symbolizes different things. To some it is the destruction of the temple in Jerusalem, and for some it is the represents the fragility of a relationship.

The minimum ages set in the U.S. Constitution for the President of the United States is 35. In Athens, Greece, a driver's license can be taken away by law if the driver is deemed either "unbathed" or "poorly dressed". Impotence is grounds for divorce in 24 U.S. states. The murder rate in the United State is 200 times greater than in Japan. In Japan no private citizen can buy a handgun legally.

The British once went to war over a sailor's ear. It happened in 1739, when Britian launched hostilities against Spain because a Spanish officer had supposedly sliced off the ear of a ship's captain named Robert Jenkins. Alexander Hamilton and his son, Philip, both died on the same spot, and both during duels. Philip went first, 3 years before his father would be killed in that same field by Aaron Burr.

The Last Supper (1945). But he's almost equally famous for his astonishing multiplicity of talents: he dabbled in architecture, sculpture, engineering, geology, hydraulics and the military arts, all with success, and in his spare time doodled parachutes and flying machines that resembled inventions of the 19th and 20th centuries.

The first aerial phtograph was taken from a balloon during the U.S. civil war. Olive oil was used for washing the body in the ancient Mediterranean world. In 1801, 20 percent of thepeople in the U.S. were slaves. Slaves under the last emperors of China wore pigtails so they could be picked out quickly. Dinner guests during the medieval times in England were expected to bring their own knives to the table. Traffic engineering was not developed in London, New York or Paris, but rather in ancient Rome. The Romans, of course, were noted road builders. The Appian Way, for example, stretched 350 miles from the Eternal City to Brundisium. In Rome itself there were actually stop signs and even alternate-side-of-the-street parking. Until the 19th century, solid blocks of tea were used as money in Siberia.

Being rude to a telephone operator in Prussia was once a crime. In 1908, a respected citizen was reprimanded by the government after becoming exasperated with an operator and saying "My dear girl"! In Thailand, the left hand is considered rude and is only done when pointing to objects or animals, never humans.

Americans on the average eat 18 acres of pizza every day. Banging your head against a wall uses 150 calories an hour. Contrary to popular belief, the British flag is not called."The Union Jack" it is actually called. "The Union Flag". It's only called the Union Jack when out at sea on navy ships. You are most likely to get murdered at Christmas time due to more alcohol being drunk. Merry Christmas.

---------------------------------
108/12/02 Mon.

Prussian  officer in his house in Cologne in 1848. Marx had friends among the German labor unions, and he was considered a threat to autocrats. Dressed in his bathrobe, he forced the officers out at the point of a revolver, which it turned out, was not loaded.

already married. The Main Library at Indiana University sinks over an inch every year because when it was built, engineers failed to take into account the weight of all the books that would occupy the building. The electric chair was invented by a dentist.

The Guinness Book of Records hold the record for being the book most often stolen from public libraries. If you removed the stomach, the spleen, 75% of the liver, 80% of the intestines, one kidney, one lung, and virtually every organ from the pelvic and groin area, the human body would still be able to survive. In 10 minutes, a hurricane releases more energy than more energy than all of the world's nuclear weapons combined.

In Italy, it is illegal to make coffines out of anything except nutshells or wood. "To prevent violence" it was at one time customary at certain phases of the moon to chain and flog inmates of England's notorious Bedlam Hospital. In Milan, Italy, when an operator dialed a wrong number, the phone company fined the operator. In Hartford Connecticut, it is illegal for a husband to kiss his wife on Sundays.

In England, the Speaker of the House is not allowed to speak. If a statue in the park of a person on a horse has both front legs in the air, the person died in battle, if the horse has one front leg in the air, the person died as a result of wounda received in battle, if the horse has all four legs on the ground, the person died of natural causes. Peanuts are one of the ingredients of dynamite.

When Heated" Found on the onstructions sheet of a Conair Pro Stytle 1600 hair dryer: "WARNING: Do not use in shower. Never use while sleeping." Found on Bat Man The Animated Series Armor Set Halloween costume box: "PARENT: Please execrise caution, mask and chest plate are not proctive, cape does not enable wearer to fly."

Virginia O'Hanlon Douglas was the eight-year-old girl who, in 1897, asked the staff of The New York Sun whether Santa Claus existed. In the now-famous editorial, Francis Church assured Virginia that yes, indeed, "there is a Santa Claus." The first dictionary of Americans English was published on Aprile 14th, 1828, by - who else? Noash Webster. No automobile made after 1924 should be designated as antique.

the child reaches 2-6 years of age. Modrn records do not compare with that of St Simeon the younger called stylites a momk who spent the final 45 years of his life living at the top of a stone piller on the hill of wonders near Antioch in Syria!

Ancient Greeks wove marjoram into funeral wreaths and put them on the graves of loved ones. The wreaths served as prayers for the happinedd of the deceased in a future life. Breaking of a glass id traditonal in some wedding ceremonies. This custom symbolizes different things. To some it is the destruction of the temple in Jerusalem, and for some it is the represents the fragility of a relationship.

The minimumage set in the U.S. Constitution for the President of the United States is 35. In Athens, Greece, a driver's license can be taken away by law if the driver is deemed either "unbathed" or "poorly dressed". Impotence is grounds for divorce in 24 U.S. states. The murder rate in the United States is 200 times greather than in Japan no private citizen can buy a handgun legally.

The British once went to war over a sailor's ear. It happened in 1739, when Britain launched hostilties against Spain because a Spanish officer had supposedly sliced off the ear of a ship's captain named Robert Jenkines. Alexandr Hamilton and his son, Philips, both died on the same spot, and both during duels. Philip went first, 3 years before his father would be killed in that same field by Aaron Burr.

---------------------------------
108/12/03 Tue.

The Last Supper (945). But he's almost equally famous his astonishing multiplicity of talent: he dabbled in architecture, sculpture, engineering, geology, hydraulics and the military arts, all with success, and in his dpare time doodled parachutes and flying machines that resembled inventions of the 19th and 20th centuries.

The first aerial photograph was taken from a ball during the U.S. civil war. Olive oil was used for washing the body in the ancient Mediterranean world. In 1801, 20 percent of the people in the U.S. were slaves. Slaves under the last emperors of China wore pigtails so they could be picked out quickly. Dinner guests during the medievals times in England were expected to bring their own knives to the table. Traffic engineering was not developed in London, New York or Paris, but rather in ancient Rome. The Romans, of course, were noted road builders. The Appian Way, for example, stretched 350 miles from the Eternal ity to Brundisium. In Ron=me itself there were actually stop signs and even alternate-side-of-the-street parking. Untile the 19th century, so;id blocks of tea were used as money in Siberia.

Being rude to a telephone operator in Prussia was once a crime. In 1908, a respected citizen was reprimanded by the government after becoming exasperated with an operator and saying "My dear girl"! InThailand, the left hand is considered unclean, so you should not eat with it. Also, pointing with one finger is considered rude and is only done whene pointing with one finger is considered rude nd is only done when pointing to objects or animals, never humans.

Anericans on the average eat 18 acres of pizza every day. Banging your head against a wall uses 150 calories an hour. Contary to popular belief, the British flag is not called "The Unions Jack" it is actually called "The Union Flag". It's only called the Union Jack when out at sea on navy ships. You are most likely to get murdered at Christmas time due to more alcohol being drunk. Merry Christmas.

Peussoan officers in his hours in Cologne in 1848. Marx had freinds among the German labor unions, and he was considered a threat to the autocrats. Dressed in his bathrobe, he forced the officer out at the point of a revolver, wich, it turned out, was not loaded.

already married. The Main Library at Indiana University sinks over an inch every year because when it was built, engineers failed to take into account the weight of all the bookd that occupy the building. The electric chair was invented by a dentist.

The Guinness Book of Records holds the records for being the book most often stolen from public libraries. If you removed the stomach, the spleen, 75% of the liver, 80% of the intestines, one kidney, one lung, and virtually every organ from the pelvic and gorina area, the human body would still be able to survive. In 10 minutes, a hurricane releases more energy than all of the world's nuclear weapons combined.

In Italy, it is illegal to make coffins out of anything except nutshells or wood. "To prevent violence" it was at one time customary at certain phases of the moon to chain and flog inmates of England's notorious Bedlam Hospital. In Milan, Italy, when Hartford Connecticut, it is illegal for a husband to kissed his wife on Sundays.

In England, the Speaker of the House is not allowed to speak. If a statue in the park of a person on a horse has both front legs in the air, the person died on battle, if the horse has one front leg in the air, the person died as a result of wounds received in battle; if the horse has all four legs on the ground, the person died of natural causes. Peanuts are one of the ingredients of dyanmite.

When Heated" Found on the instructions sheet of a Conair Pro Style 1600 hair dryer: "WARNING: Do not use in shower. Never use while sleeping." Found on Bat Man The Animated Seried Armor Set Halloween costume box: "PARENT: Please exercise caution, mask and chest plate are not protective, cape does not enable wearer to fly."

Virgina O'Hanlon Douglas was the eight-year-old girl who, in 1897, asked the staff of The New York Sun whether Santa Claus existed. In the now-famous editorial, Francis Church assured Virginia that yes, indeed, "there is a Santa Claus." The first dictionary of American English was published on April 14th, 1828, by - who else? - Noah Webster. No automobile made after 1924 should be designated as antique.

---------------------------------
108/12/04 Wed.

the child reaches 2-6 years of age. Modern records do not company with that of St Simeon the younger called stylites a monk who spent the final 45 years of his life living at top of a stone pollar on the hill of wonders near Antioch in Syria!

Ancient Greeks wove marjorm into funeral wreaths and put them on the graves of loved ones. The wreaths served as prays for the happiness of the deceased in a future life. Breakoing of a glass is traditional in some wedding ceremonies. Thos custom symbolize different things. To some it is the destruction of the temple in Jerusalem, and for some it is the represents the fragility of a relationship.

The minimum age set in the U.S. Constitution for the President of the United State is 35. In Athens, Greece, a driver's license can be taken away by law if the divorce in 24 U.S. states. The murder rate in the United States is 200 times greather than in Japan. In Japan no private citizen can buy a handgun lefally.

The British once went to war over a sailor's ear. It happened in 1739, when Britain launched hostilities againt. Spainish officer had supposedly sliced off the ear of a ship's captain named Robert Jenkins. Alexander Hamilton and his son, Philips, both died on the same spot, and both during duels. Philips went first, 3 years before his father would be killed in thar same field by Aaron Byrr.

The Last Supper (1945). But he's almost equally famous for his astonishing multiplicity of talents: he dabbled in architecture, sculpture, engineering, geology, parachutes and flying machines that resembled inventions of the 19th and 20th centuries.

The first aerial photograph was taken from a balloon during the U.S. civil war. Olive oil was used for washing the body in the ancient Mediterranean world. In 1801, 20 percent of the people in the U.S. were slaves. Slaves under the last emperors of China wore pigtails so they could be picked out quickly. Dinner guests during the medieval times in England were expected to bring their own knives to the table. Traffic engineering was not developed in London, New York or Paris, but rather in ancient Rome. The Romans, of  course, were noted road builders. The Appian Way, for example, stretched 350 miles from the Eternal City to Brundisium. In Rome itself there were actually stop signs and even alternate-side-of-the-street parking. Until the 19th century, solid blocks of tea were used as money in Siberia.

Being rude to a telephone operator in Prussia was once a crime. In 1908, a respected citizen was reprimanded by the government after becoming exasperated with an operator and saying "My dear girl"! In Thailand, the left hand is considered unclean, so you should not eat with it. Also, pointing with one finger is considered rude and is only done when pointing to  objects or animals, never humans.

Americans on the average eat 18 acres of pizza every day. Banging your head against a wall uses 150 calories an horur. Contray to popular belief, the British flag is not called "The Union Jack" it is actually called "The Union Flag". It's only called the Union Jack" it is actually called " The Union Flag". It's only called the Union Jack when out at sea on navy ships. You are most likely to get murdered at Christmas time due to more alcohol being drunk. Merry Christmas.

---------------------------------
108/12/05 Thu.

Prussian officer in his Cologne in 1848. Marx had friends among the German labor unions, and he was consider a threat to the autocrates. Dressed in his bathrobe, he forced the officers out at the point of a revolver, which, it turned out, was not loaded.

already married. The Main Library at Indiana University sinks over an inch every year because when it was built, engineers failed to take into account the weight of all the books that would occupy the building. The electric chair was invented by a dentist.

The Guinness Book of Records holds the record for being the record for being the book most often stolen from public libraries. If you removed the stomach, the spleen, 75% of the liver, 80% of the intestines, one kidney, one lung, and virtually every organ from the pelvic and groin area, the human body would still be able to survive. In 10 minutes, a hurricane releases more energy than all of the world's nuclear weapons combined.

In Italy, it is illegal to make coffins out of anything except nutshells or wood. "To prevent violence "it was at one time customary at certain phases of the moon to chain and flog inmates of England's notorious Bedlam Hospital. In Milan, Italy, when an operator dialled a wrong number, the phone company fined the operator. In Hartford Connecticut, it is illegal for a husband to kiss his wife on Sundays.

In England, the Speaker of the House is not allowed to speak. If a statue in the park of a horse has both front legs in the air, the person died in battle, if the horse has one front leg in the air, the person died as a result of wounds received in battle ,if the horse has all four legs on the ground, the person died of natural causes. Peanuts are one of the ingredients of dynamite.

When Heated" Found on the instruction sheet of a Conair Pro Style 1600 hair dryer: "WARNING: Do not use in shower. Never use while sleeping. "Found on Bat Man The Animated Series Armor Set Halloween costume box: "PARENT: Please exercise caution, mask and chest plate are not protective, cap does not enable wearer to fly."

Virginia O'Hanlon Douglas was the eight-year-old girl who, in 1897, asked the staff of The New York Sun whether Santa Claus existed. existed. In the now-famous editorial, Francis Church assured Virginia that yes, indeed, " there os a Santa Claus." The first dictionary of American English was published on April 14th, 1828, by - who else? - Noah Webster. No automobile made after 1924 should be designated as antique.

the child reaches 2-6 years of age. Modern records do not compare with that of St Simeon than younger called stylites a monk who spent the final 45 years of his life living the top of a stone poller on the hill of wonders near Antioch in Syria!

---------------------------------
108/12/06 Fri.

Ancient Greeks wove majoram into funeral wreaths and put them on the graves of loved ones. The wreaths served as prayers for the happiness of the deceased in a future life. Breaking of a glass id traditional in some wedding ceremonies. This custom symbolize different things. To some it is the destruction of the temple in Jerusalem, and for some it is the represents the fragility of a relationship.

The minimum age set in the U.S. Constitution for the President of the United States is 35. In Athens, Greece, a driver's license can be taken away by law if the divorce in 24 U.S. states. The murder rate in the United State is 200 times greather than in Japan. In Japan no private citizen can buy a gandgun legally.

The British once went to war over a sailor's ear. It happened in 1739, when  Britain launched hostilties against Spain because a Spanish officer had supposedly sliced off the ear of a ship's captain named Robert Jenkines. Alexander Hamilton and his son, Philip, both died on the same spot, and both during duels. Philip went first, 3 years before hos father his father would be killed in that same field by Aaron Burr.

The Last Supper (1945). But he's almost equally famous for his astonishing multiplicity of talents: he dabbled in architecture, sculpture, engineering, geology, hydraulic and the military arts, all with success, and in his spare time doodled parachutes and flying machines that resembled inventions of the 19th and 20th centuries.

The first aerial photograph was taken from a balloon during the U.S. civil war. Olive oil was used for washing the body in the ancient Mediterranean world. In 1801, 20 percent of the people in the U.S. were slaves. Slaves under the last emperors of China wore pigtails so they could be picked out quickly. Dinner guests during the medieval times in England were expected to bring their own knives to the table. Traffic engineering was not devoloped in London, New York or Paris, but rather in ancient Rome. The Romans, of course, were noted road builders. The Appian Way, for example, stretched 350 miles from the Eternal City to Brundisium. In Rome itself there were actually stop signs and even alternate-side-of-the-street parking. Untile the 19th century, solid blocks of tea were used as money in Siberia.

Being rude to a telphone operator in Prussia was once a crime. In 1908, a respected citizen was reprimanded by the government afer becoming exasperated with an operator and saying "My dear girl"! In Thailand, the left hand is considered unclean, so you should not eat with it. Also, pointing with one finger is considered rude and is only done when pointing to objects or animals, never humans.

Americans on the average eat 18 acres of pizza every day. Banging your head against a wall uses 150 calories an hour. Contray to popular belief, the British flag is not called "The Union Jack" it is actually called "The Union Flag". It's only murdered at Christmas time due to more alcohol being drunk. Merry Christmas.

Prussian officers in hos house in Cologne in 1848. Marx had friends among the German labor unions, and he was considered a threat to the autocrats. Dressed in his bathrobe, he forced the officers out at the point of a revolver, which, it turned out, was not loaded.

already married. The Main Library at Indiana University sinks over an inch every year because when it was built, engineering failed to taken into account the weight of all the biiks that would occupy the building. The electric chair was invented by a dentist.

The Guinness Book of Records holds the record for being the book most often stolen from poblic libraries. If you removed the stomach, the spleen, 75% of the liver, 80% of the intestines, one kideny, one lung, and virtually every organ from the pelvic and groin area, the human body would still be able to survive. In 10 minutes, a hurricaner releases more energy than all of the world's nuclear weapsons combined.

In Italy, it is illegal to make cofficient out if anything except nutshells or wood. "To prevent violence" it was at one time customary at ceertain phases of the moon to chain and flog inmates of England's notorious Bedlam Hospital. In Milan, Italy, when an operator dialled a wrong number, the phone company fined the operator. In Hartford Connecticut, it is illegal for a husband to kiss his wife on Sundays.

---------------------------------
108/12/01 Sun.

* Two drivers of learning behaviour are natural curiosity and the desire for a reward. But which is better for helping children learn? By Tiffanie Wen, 6th December 2019.

Getting children to learn for the sake of learning rarher than the promise of an A grade or threat of an F. It sounds like a pipe dream, right? Maybe not.

From the time they are toddles, children are naturally interested in exploring their enviornment. From examining a blade of grass to playing with the family pet, toddlers want to know how enerything works, feels and tastes. According to experts, it's not until later they learn to do something - like site quietly at a snake table - in order to gain a reward or avoid a punishment.

These two drivers of behaviour are knowns as intrinsic motivation (natural curiosity) extrinsic motivation (link to reward). But which is better for helping children learn - and can you nuture a joy of learning without handing out rewards?

¡iThe value of natural curiosity¡j 

"Intrinsic motivation starts early. Chuldren are proactive. They are curious by nature," says professor Frederic Guay, an expert in motivation t Laval University in Quebec. "Educators and school system need to nuture this motivation."

Guay and his colleagues conducted a soon-to-be published meta- analysis on intrinsic motivation and student outcomes from primary school to university level, looking at 344 studies and a sample of more than 200,000 children. Student completed a questionnaire designed to measure different types of motivation, and grades were swlf-reported or taken from in particular subjects experienced higher achivment, increased persistence and increased creativity in those areas.

Other research backs up the notion that intrinsically motivated kids are better at learning. One study from Germany found that students aged seven to nine who felt immersed in the stories they read had higher levels of reading comprehension than those who were driven by the desire to compete with other student. Another German study found a reciprocal relationship between intrinsic reading motivaion and reading achievement in students aged eight to 10, but no such relationship when the motivation was extrinsic.

And the bevefits of intrinsic motivation on performance are not limited to kids. One study that examined the motivations of cadets at West Point military academy found that those who were purely intrinsically motivated were more likely to become commissioned officers, extend their service and be selected for early promotions than those who were both intrinsically motivated.

¡iSo why do we give stickers, then?¡j 

Yet despite the evidence on the importance of nuturing intrinsic motivation, a reward culture creeps into the classroom early on. Children get prize like stickers to encourage good behaviour and regular report cards to offically acknowledge achievment.


* Acknowledging one student's good behaviour helps other student do the same - Christine Dewart

One study of teacher's use of rewards from kindergarten to fifth grade found, for example, that all teachers in the study used rewards like praise. Nearly 80% also used tangible rewards on a weekly basis, like tokens to purchase prizes later. Other common forms of reward included class privileges, like deciding an activity or extra time on fun activities.

Christine Dewart, who has taught five-to-six-year-olds in Califorina for nine years, says when she studied child development at university there was an emphasis on the importance of intrinsic motivation and avoiding too many rewards. But in here everyday professional experience, she sees the value of using rewards to manage her class - and has found that "acknowleding one studenrt's good behaviour helps other student do the same."

Dewart cites the case of a student with anxiety and physical aggression issue. "I didn't want to single him out for misbehaving, so I came up with a behaviour plane involving rewards. For every 15 minutes he was able to control himself, he earned one minute of free times to use later. "The 15-minute requirement then became 30 minutes and eventually stretched to an entire lesson in which he was able to stay calm and attaentive-a process jumpstarted by the reward.

¡iCan you boost intrinsic motivation?¡j

If educating children is a complex mix of nuturing their own curiosity and rewarding them for completing less attractives tasks, can we do more to mask the task itself the reward?

Sarah McGeown, a senior lecturer in developmental psychology at the University of Edinburgh, says there are things teachers and parents can do th boost a child's intrinsic motivation. One example is recreational reading, of which intrinsic reading motivation is a predictor.

She says finding books that are at the right reading level is important, as is encouraging student to identify as readers even of they choose comic books or magazines over novels. "It's about broadening the conceptualisation of what it means to be a reader so more children and adolescents can self-identify as readers," she says. " Helping children find the geners or authors that they enjouy is really important."

Guay believes it is essential to support kids in a way that makes them feel they have chioces and are doing things of their own free will. "Rather than focusing on rewards, focus on the quality of relationshiop with the students," he says, "[That} means listening to children and even acknowledging negative feeling, which are normal."

---------------------------------
108/12/09 Mon.

* Studies have shown that for older student, extrinsic motivators can boost performanc

He suggests finding time to address negative feelings toward an activity and explain why it is valuable even if it's not particularly fun. "Students who find learning important, even if they don't enjoy it will bring about the same kinds of positive outcomes as you see with those with high intrinsic motivation."

¡iDoes feedback trump grades?¡j

But what does this all mean for grades, perhaps the most obvious extrinsic motivator for school learners? Both Guay and McGeown say there should be less focus on grades and more on the effort it took durning the process itself. But some teachers want to go further.

Aaron Blackwelder, a high school English teacher, helped found the Facebook group Teachers Going Gradeless three years ago. From an intial membership of a few hundred, it now has 5,000 members.

He was inspired by a serious of studies in the 1980s in which students aged 10-12 were assigned to receive either grades, grades and feeback, or feedback only. Interest and performance were highest for students who only received feedback, while grades and grades plus feedback undermined their interest and performance, the studies found.

Instead of giving grades, Blackwelder presents students with a list of skills they need to master and opts for a pure feedback model on assignments. Some teachers are leerly of his methods but he believes they are working. While there are always a few kids who don't participate, that number hasn't gone up, while the kids who do participate are improving "astronomically".

"They trust me to offer constructive feedback because my actions are not perceived as punitive," he says. "Student trust one another as there is no competition to earn the most points and earn the highest grade in the class. Rather, student rely on one another's strengths in order to be successful."

Blackwelder, despite his preferred model, is still required to given a grade at the end of term. But Adam Tyner, associate director of research at the Thomans B.Fordham Institute, an education reform think tank, says grades do serve a practical purpose.

"The main benefit of using grades is that it distills performance into a singele value that parents and student should be able to understand. Teachers can include both academic performance outcomes and day-to-day behaviour into students' grades, which means that they can theoretically capture not just whethere the student knows the subject but also 'non-cognitive skill's like how well students cooperate and collaborate."

And the fact that teachers who have adopted a feedback-only model in the classroom still need to report a final grade points to a social reality, that as we grow op and enter the job market extrinsic motivation - probably in the form of salaries - will play a greater role in our lives.

¡iA place for rewardws?¡j

That may partly be why studies have shown that for older students, extrinsic motivators can boost performance.

Tyner points to the National Math and Science Initiative's College Readiness Program in the US, which couples advanced training for high school students with financial incentives for successful students and teachers. "A rigorous evaluation by Northwest University economist Kirabo Jackson found that NMSI programme increases college attendance by 4.2 percentage points while increasig college readiness and longer-term labour force outcomes. Some subgroup effects were jaw-dopping. Hispanic student experienced an 11% gain in earnings when exposed to the NMSI incentive programme."

---------------------------------
108/12/10 Tue.

¡i I'm sceptical for most adolescent schoolwork...there is much student intrinsic motivation we need to worry about undermining - Adam Tyner¡j

Tyner adds that although extrinsic motivators may undermine existing existing high intrinsic motivation, it is not always the case, and kids are not always intrinsically motivated to begin with.

"One point that researchers make is that extrinsic motivators may be dangerous when intrinsic motivation is already really high and a new incentive re-frames the experience as something to get paid for rather than something to do for fun," he says. "I'm sceptical that for most adolescent much student intrinsic motivation we need to worry about undermining."

And both motivators can soupport each other. "There is a myth that intrinsic and extrinsic motivation are part of some kind of zero-sum competition. If an extrinsic motivator can indirectly empower students."

* Did Disney shape how you see the world?

¡iThere's a good chance that some of your beliefs have been influenced by decades of animated movies. By Richard Gray, 1st August 2019.

Do you whistle while you work? Perhaps you prefer to just keep swimming. Or maybe you're trying to fit you phenomenal cosmic powers into an itty, bitty living space.

If any of these phrases are now worming their way out of your consciousness (you're welcome), then it is likely you are a child of Disney, brought up on regular diet of chirpy tales to keep you occupied while your parents grabbed an hour for themselves.

The generation now filling up workplaces were fed a feast of feature-length animations during their formative years like no other before them.

The Little Mermaid came out 30 years ago and less than six months later was released on home video. This was a significant break for Disney, who usually waited several years before releasing movies on VHS. The films that followed through the 1990s - including Beauty and the Beast, then Aladdin, the Lion King, Pocahontas and the first two Tony Story movies - also came out on video around a year after their cinema release.

And then came DVDs. Disney's first animated DVD was a re- release of The Little Mermaid in 1999. DVDs didn't need rewinding and were less susceptible to going wonky after being repeatedly watched. They were the perfect "electronic babysitter".

But has Disney's cocktail of morality, stereotypes and a sprinkling of magic had any lasting lasting impact on this generation of adults who ,once upon a time, devoured these films as children? And could it be influencing how your colleagues behave in the workplace or even your future career?

"Disney is quite pervasive within our modern culture," says Martyn Giffin, an expert on the cultural perception of work and organisation at Durham University in the UK. "Home videos exposed kids over and over again to the ideas in Disney films. If they were doing this from a young age it is bound to have an impact."

At face value, these cartoons are harmless entertainment, but some researchers have raised comcerns about the subliminal lessons Disney's films contain. Perhaps the most common criticism is the way these have portrayed gender, racial and cultural stereotypes in the past. The opening song Arabian Nights in Aladdin, for example, contained the line "where they cut off your ear if they don't like your face" when it was released in 1993. Disney later changed the lyric.

¡iLasting ompact of stereotypes¡j

Some researchers divide the corporation'ds portrayal of women into distinct eras. First came the domestic era, when female characters like Snow White, Sleeping Beauty and Cinderella were portrayed as homemakers, often cleaning and in need of rescue by a man.

Then came the rebellious, new-age phase of Ariel in The Little Mermaid, Princess Jasmine inAladdin, Pocahontas and Mulan. During this period, Disney's women seemed to gain a more independent streak, strivng to free themselves form the bonds of society. But Ariel also sacrifices her voice in order to be with man she loves.

"The symbolism here is powerful," wrote Mia Adessa Towbein and her colleagues at the family studies department of Colorado State University in one study. "To win the love of the prince, she most forfeit her thoughts and intellect, her independence and identity."

Although the story was originallu written by Hams Christian Andersen, the researchers say it provides an apt metaphor for many of Disney's heroines - "no one listens to their words".

The Little Mermaid and the fives subsequent fioms also show another trend - the female characters start to sperk less. Despite being the title characters, women speak just 32% of the time in The Little Mermaid, while they have just 24% of lines in Pocahontas and 23% in Mulan, In Aladdin, female characters have just 10% the dialogue.

Carmen Fought and Karen Eisenhauer, the linguists at North Carolina State University whose analysis produced these figures, also found male characters in the same films tended to boss the female characters around far more than vice versa. When the women did so, they were more polite than the men. Others have suggested levels of uncertainty in the dialogue of female characeters have also increased.

For critics, this sends a strong message to young children that reinforces many long- standing gender stereotypes. And there is some evidence it could leave a lasting impression.

---------------------------------
108/12/11 Wed.

A study by family life researcher Sarash Coyne at Brigham Young University - inspired by concerns about her daughter's own consumption of Disney - found that engagemenyt with Disney princesses in young girls around two years old was associated with Disney princesses in young girls around two years old was associated Disney princesses in young girls around two years old was associated with greater female fender-stereotype behavious and lower body self-esteem a year later.

¡iDemonising the mentally ill¡j

Disney has also faced criticism over treatment of mental health - 85% of Disney's 34 animated featyres released before 2004 contained references to mental illness, often in ways that aimed to denigrate or set apart characters, according to psychology researchers at the University of Calgary. They warned it could have "implications  for child viewers in terms of their potentially learning prejudicial attitudes" against people perceived as having mental health problems.

The same research team also warned that the high prevalence of referevces to evil in Disney's films could also lead children to learn to "demonies people who engage in perceived 'bad' behaviours" of they watch the films repeatedly.

It is something Fred Zimmerman, a behavioural economist at the University of California, Los Angeles, agrees could be contributing to wider societal problems today.

"Disney films almost always present a battle between Good and Evil," he says. "ONe can't help but wonder of this Disnified understanding of the world as a struggle between the good guys and bad guys is a piece of today's problems of political polarisation and social exclusion."

¡iThe hidden upside¡j

But there are many potential positive effects from Disney's films too. ONe study showed that watching Disney characters help one another - a common thread - inspired children to help their own friends. 

Another study by Coyne revealed that Disney films are rich in so called "prosocial" behaviour, such as sharing, helping others, or offering compliments or encouragement. She and her colleagues fount that Disney's films contain an average of one act of prosocial behavious every minute - about seven times the level found in other children's television programming in the US.

Griffin believe that the messages learned by children at a young age from films can be carried into the workplace and that there is a good chance that someone sitting near you in the office has some of their beliefs shaped by Disney.

He has studied how work is portrayed in Disney films and says it may have contributed to the reluctance amomg the younger workforce to join traditional workplaces. Millennials demand far more flexibility from employears than previous generations, are more willing to change jobs and companies and often prefer self-employment to the constraints of full-time contracts.

"In the early films, work was always portrayed as this horrible bad thinh," says Griffin. "You had characters who often separated from their parents and punished in this world of work, like Snow White filling up the wash bucket and slaving away in the house and Cinderella subjected to work in the household."

"Disney's response was to say 'whistle while you work' and everythig will be ok as a prince will come along and rescue you," he says. "That went on in the films for years."

"If you think about that [situation] in a modern workplace, it is a dangeruos view to have - if you just carry on being exploited because you think everything is going to turn out to be okay."

Managers - think about the ugly stepsisters in Cinderella for example - are also typically portrayed as manipulative and horrible.

It might also explain some of the dissatisfaction thar millennials who were children during the late 1990s habe with work, he says.

Disney itself did not respond to repeated BBC requests for an interview or a comment for this article. But in Disney's recent films many researchers have noticed a marked change. Giffin, for example, says carrer are portrayed more positively and as something to aspire to.

"Zootopia is great example of work in Disney films," says Griffin. "There ie a bunny rabbit who wants to be a police officer and she gets laughed at but throughout the films she sets out to prove herself. The newest films also have this idea of bringing your friends closer to you to help change your identity and your workplace. That's a really positive message."

The female characters in Frozen, Brave and Moana also represent a new, independent and free-spirited era of Disney. They are strong and in control of their own lives and no longer need male characters to save the day. But while Brave and Moana are seen as truly breaking the Disney princess mould, opinion is somewhat divided over Frozen's heroines.

"The company is attempting to keep up with the times with reference to gender equality and representation," says Ingvild Kvale Sorenssen, who studies children's relationships with Disney at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology. "How this influences [children long term] we cannot know, but representation matters, diversity matters. And being able to dream and imagine oneself a chararcter, and to merely be entertained, is not a bad thing."

Perhaps most welcome are the recent remakes of the older classic Disney animations such as Aladdin and the upcoming Mulan. Earlier this month Disney announced it was casting R&B singer and actress Hall Bailey in the role of Areil in a live-action version of The Little Mermaid, a decision that drew a backlash from some fans, but was widely applauded.

"Disney's recasting of prior era's works is extremely impactful for children of colour and for global diversity," says Shearon Roberts, who is studying the changing face of Disney's social consciousness at Xavier University of Louisiana in New Orleans. "Disney's current decafe has offered girls the full spectrum to dream bryond castles and to imagine the full reach of their abilities.

"It is also a message for young boys. Women and girls are not just their objects of affection, but allies in ridding their worlds of evil and making the word better for all."

---------------------------------
108/12/12 Thu.

* Are we born leaders?

¡iHow your silblings - or lack of them - has shaped the skills you need at work.¡j By Christian Jarrett

Glen Allsopp first came up with the brilliant idea for his business sat in his childhood bedroom at home in Newcastle, aged 16. Its rapid success led him to relocate from the UK to Cape Town before he even reached adulthood.

But where does such striking entrepreneurial spirit come from? Genes, parenting and education all like play a role, but how does your family - especially your brothers and sisters - shape you?

Allsopp, the 30-year-old founder and CEO of detailed.com (an SEO consultancy that's worked with eight and nine-figure companies), is the youngest of three silbling, and he credits his position in the family with giving him the freedom to be creative and take risks.

"I could see my parents become more open to their kid doing different things as we all went from school and into the job market," he says. " I had total freedom to quit my part-time job, leave college and essentially start a new life on a different continent."

The idea that last-borns are more adventurous is just one of several theorie swirling around the research literature on how our position in the family affects us in ways that play out in our adult careers. An even more popular idea - an almost taken-for-granted fact - is that first-born children, with their years of exprience as top dog, are mort disposed to become leaders.

Yet the scientific evidence for this is weak at best - some experts even descrtbe the influence of birth order on personality as a "zombie theory", i.e. one that refuses to die despite being refuted.

But that doesn't mean our sibling relationships (or lack of them) have no impact. Recent findings suggest that instead it may be the age gap between siblings, the balance of bodys and girls, and quality of the dibling relationships thar matter more.

Those squabbles over who rides in the front of the car or who gets the latest bedtime may in fact be transformative. The battles and diplomacy of dibling life really can help equip us with the kinds of personal skills and attributes we'll find useful as working adults.

¡iBorn to lead?¡j

In terms of how siblings shape us, it's definitely our position in the family - birth order - that's the host topic. The internet is littered with dramatic articles claiming first-borns are more likely to become leaders.

Why wouldn't first-borns take those family boss skills and instincts forward into their working lives? There's plenty of anecdotal support for the idae too: European leaders Angela Merkel and Emmanuel Macron, for instance, are both first-borns, as are the recent US Presidents Bill Clinton, George W Bush and Barack Obama (or raised as such - Obama had older half-siblings who he didn't live with). In the world of business, Sheryl Sandberg, Marissa Mayer, Jeff Bezoes, Elon Musk and Richard Branson, to name just a few famous CEOs, are all first-borns.

And yet several studies have deburnked the notion that birth order prtfoundly shapes our personalitiers. They analysed whether, for instance, we turn out more conscientious versus idle, or dominant versus timid.

In 2015, two huges  studies found no meaningful asso ciation between birth order and personality traits. In one, Rodica Damian and Brent Roberts at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign assessed the traits, IQ and birth order of nearly 400,000 US secondary-school students. In the other, Julia Rohrer at the University of Leipzig and her colleagues assessad IQ, personlity and birth-order data from nearly 20,000 people in the UK, US and Germany. In both studies there were some small correlations but they were minuscule in terms of their practical relevance.

Another popular idea related to brith order is that last-borns, like Allsopp, are more incline to take risks - yet this specific claim was also debunked when Tomas Lejarrage at the University of the Balearic Islands, together with colleagues, found no meaningful association between adventurousness and birth-order position.

¡iLiking your siblings helps¡j

So, birth order may not be all it's craked up to be. And yet watching a pair of siblings play and fight, argue and make friends again, it seems incredible to think that theses experiences would not leave their mark. One thing to bear in mind here is that birth order is only one aspect of sibling dynamics.

---------------------------------
108/12/13 Fri.

The lack of a first-born or last-born effect doesn't mean that your individual experience in the family hierarchy didn't shape the person you've become.

It may be the particular nature of your own relationships and role in the power structure that matter. But caution is again required - as Rohere points  out, if you find a link between sibling relationships and behavious later in life, there is a much simpler explanation: the stability of personality. "Somebody who takes care of their siblings might simply be a very caring person, and also act caring later in other environments; without any actual causal effect of sibling realtionships," she says.

Aside from these nuances, there is some evidence that sibling relations can have far-reaching psychological consequences. Above all, the quality of the sibling dynamic seems crucial - sibling can either cause or protect against mental health problems depending on whether there is warmth or conflict between them.

Earlier research found siblings who engaged in more pretend play together also tended to have a more precocious understanding of other people's emotions.

It's also worth remembering that brother and sister relationships do not exist in a vacuum - siblings tend to enjoy better relations where they are raised in a more orgainsed home environment with parents who are happy together. In other words, there's a nesting of effects - yes,your relationship with your sibling might have affected your own development, but in turn your dynamic with your siblings might have been shape by the broad atmosphere at home.

¡iThe power of one¡j

Being emotionally resilient, empathic and socially skilled are obvious advantages in many careers (as is being more of an extrovert, the resarch suggests having a sibling who you get along with may provide the perfect training ground. So where does that leave only children like me or Brendan Hufford, an SEO director at design agency Clique Studios? Hufford says the experience of being an only child influenced him deeply.

"I've noticed that I seek a lot of outside validation," he says. "Without sibling to validate my daily experiences growing up, I looked to others to proveide input on my work and daily events." He says that in his professional career, this has really helped him engage with collegues and build a rapport quickly. "However, as I moved into leadership positions, the number of colleagues that I moved into leadership positions, the number of colleagues that I moved into leadership positions, the number of colleagues that I could share openly with was reduced, leahding to long periods of ambivalence regarding my ability and effectiveness as a leader."

In terms of the research literature in this area, some of it is rather disconcerting: foe indtance a study that compared the personality traits and behavioural tendencies of people born in China just before or after it introduced its one-child policy found that those in the latter group - predominantly only children - tended to be "less trusting, less reustworthy, more risk-averse, less competitive, more pessimistic and less conscientious". Not a great profile for success navigating office politics later in life.

"I've had to work on learning to listen and give my teammates time to process things," says Hufford. "As a natural questioner, I've already thought through concepts very deeply before presenting them and, as an only child, I never had any competing interests other than convincing my parents of something. Compromise and communication was minimised to only what most affected me."

Another recent study reveal related results in terms of the possible social consequences of being an only child - participants who were only children scored lower for "agreeavleness" (they were less freindly and trusting). However, ther was a silver lining: the children in the study performed better in a test of their creativity, a finding that the researchers put down to their having received greater attention from their parents and/or the fact their parents expected more of them. (I would add that perhaps only children also benefit from more time spent alone with their imahination.)

That last result is tentative for now. But it suggests that, while I (and other only children) might wonder what it would have been like to have brother or sister to chat and play with, perhaps the quite I enjoyed at home helped lay the foundation for becoming a writer. After all, whatever our formative family experiences, there are many different occupational niches we may be able to flourish in.

¡iImages produced by Javier Hirschfeld¡j

Dr Christian Jarrett is a senior editor at Aeon magazine on their forthcoming Psydhe channel devoted to psychological wellbeing. His next book, about personality change, will be published in 2020.

¡iWelcome to the Family Values¡jBy Angela Henshall, 25th July 2019.

Welcome to Fanily Values, our fabulous new BBC Worklife series that explores all the mind-boggling trends shaping contemporary family life. Working parents particularly interest me; I'm a longtime journalist and editor, and parenthod has been the single biggest influence on my working life to date. But obviously juggling work with pareniing isn't the only topic we'll be covering.

The challenges of 21st Century life - everything from climate change to technology - are disrupting how we live and work. They also mean the way we think about family id changing, in some cases radically. What will unite thea Family Values content will be our approach: you can look forward to a series of longreads that use solutions-based reporting to explore the intricacies of our new "normal families", plus families (and family-like units) that break the mould.

The series will explore the tensions and opportunities around: how your parents shape your career, working with your family, character traits in kindergarten, our relationships with siblings, how different economies are preparing for the baby bust and a lot more, How will this picture of family values evolve in the next 20, 30 years?

We will also be endeavouring to get as much balance into our authorship and sourcing on these stories as possible. BBC Worklife participates in the 50:50 Project, which aims to increase the number of female contributors in our output. The 50:50 Project has become the BBC's biggest ever collective action on gender representation. We will also push to include other underrepresented perspectives, in terms of race, nationality, sexuality, and other identities.

Work and family can no longer be viewed in isolation. With Family Values, we'll be charting the present and future of the two biggest factors in many people's lives.

---------------------------------
108/12/18 Wed.

*The apps combatting'shareting'

¡iThe new tools share family snaps may pave the way for better social media. By Nicholas Mancall-Bitel, 14th Augst 2019.

We're all getting a little paranid about being spied on online but one group in particular is paying much closer attention than everyone else.

It's not Silicon Valley gury or young disruptors this timeo; it's doting parents and grandparents cooing over their toddlers.

Families everywhere are squabbling over how to share photos and messages involving children, who be too young to voice their own objections but whose involvement raeises the stakes of unthinking exposure.

"Sharenting", a portmanteau of parenting and sharing, isn't inherently good or bad depending on how and where parents

*The Science behind giving goods gifts

¡iResearch shows that giving a bad gift can hurt your relationships. So how can you be sure you pick something your recipient will love? By Tiffanie Wen, 10th December 2019.

It's the season to examine your holiday gift list. You'll have to figure out who gets a present - but also how much you're actually going to spend and, most importantly, what to get.

In the UK, the average household spends around 500 on gifts during the traditional holiday season, equalling Americans who spend about  $650. And although giving gifts can make you happy, communicate your fellings toward the receiver and even strengthen relationships, a less-than-stellar gift can have the opposite effect.

"Choosing the wrong gift anything in common," says Elizabeth Dunn, a psychology professor at the University of British Columbia Canada and co-author of Happy Money: The Science of Happier Spending. Her research has also showed that undesirable gift can sometimes negatively impact the receiver's perception of a relationship's future potential.

¡iSpending more does not always guarantee a well-received gift¡j

Since you don't want your holiday gift to cause more harm than good, how can you be sure to choose a gift the receiver will love? Psychology may have the answer. Don't fret about the price/

Should you just splurge to show how much you care?

Research has actually shown that spending more does not always guarantee a well-receives gift. One study found that the more expensive a gift, the more gives expected recipients to appreciate it. But while givers thought spending more conveyed more thoughtfulness, receivers didn't associate the price with their level of apperciation.

"It seems pretty intuitive that if you spend more, you're going to get a better gift. It turns out that there's no evidence that recipients are sensitive to the cost of a gift when they figure out how much they're going to enjoy that gift," says Jeff Galak, an associate professor of marketing at the Carnegie Mellon Tepper School of Business in the US city of Pittsbutgh.

Galak, who studies consumer behaviour and decision making, acknowledges that you may have to hit certain price threshould due to tradition or expectations. But once you may have to hit a certain price threshold due to tradition or expectations. But once you meet that cost, "it doesn't matter if you buy something more valuable", he says. The gift itself is what matters most.

Think longer term

Galak says the trick for giving a great gift is to think past the fleeting moment of actually handing it over, a concept he and colleagues Julian Givi and Elanor Williams found to be a common theme in studies on gift giving, including a paper they authored.

"When givers give gift, they're trying to optimise on the moment they give the gift and see the smile on the recipient's face right in that moment," says Galak. "But what recipients care about is how much value they're going to derive from that over a longer time period."

¡iIf you have something in common with somebody, get something that shares the same affinity - Elizabeth Dunn¡j

In other words, it might not be exciting to watch a friend or family member open the gift of a movie-streaming subscription, so you might be less likely to give one. But a recipent may actually love it, since it's a gift that can be enjoyed often over time.

Forget about uniqueness

Galak also suggests not getting hung up on giving the most unique gift out there. Sometimes something that many people desire or may others have can be exactly what someone wants.

One study showed that we tend to focus on a recipient's unique traits and personality as we shop for them. But this hyper-specificity leads us to ignore other aspects of thir wants and needs, which may make us buy them an inferior gift. We also tend to want to buy  different gifts for multiple people, even if they might all br happier with the same thing-and might never compare gifts at all.

In order to feel like a good gift giver, people erroneously feel like they need to diversify the gift, even at the cost of giving the best present, according to Galak. You might also overlook buying something that you own because you don't want to undermine your own sense of individuality.

So those trainers of yours thatr your friend loves? Don't avoid gifting a matching pair just because you want to be unique.

Buy based on share interests

To shop better, psychology professor Dunn suggests starting with something you have in common with the recipient. She says that instead of using you and the recipient diverge, focus on what you share and pick a gift from there.

"People are better at chossing something for themselves, "she says, "so if you have something in common with somebody, get something that shares the same affinity, because something you would like will more likely be something they like."

Asking somebody what they want is seen as taboo. And that's a shame. We would all be better off if we gave people what they want - Jeff Galak

For an even stronger gift think about a common interest you share and buy something that your recipient can experience - say, concert tickets or a cooking class. Research has also showen that experiential gifts can bring you and the recipient closer, even if you don't experience the gift with your recipient.

Ask them what they want

If you have nothing in common, though, Dunn recommends just asking the recipient what they want, or to work off a registry. In fact, research shows that people are more appreciative of gifts they ask for than ones they don't.

"People want to be creative and surprise the recipient," says Dunn, "but the better gift will be whatever it is thet say they want."

Galak agress that the simplest way to make a person happy with a gift is asking them what they want. It's not an answer most people like, he says, because good gifts are supposed to be a 'surprise' - even though science has disprovent this.

---------------------------------
108/12/19 Thu.

*Should I delete Tinder? These millennials think so

¡iMore than half a decade since dating apps went mainstream, can millennials who've lost patience with digital platforms still find love in the analogue world?¡j By Maddy Savage, 4th December 2019.

They've facilitated billions of dates and helped pave the way for marriage, children and everything in between. It's old news that dating apps and online platforms are nows that dating common way for prospective partners to meet in the US and have become popular around the world. But for many of those who've tried and failed to find true love through their device, the novelty is long gone.

"I've met great people that later became friends and had a gandful of extended fling,  but never a a long-term relationship," says write Madeleine Dore, a 30-year-old from Melbourne who's also including Tinder, Bumble and OkCupid over the last five years and describes the dates she's been on as ranging from experiences "that feel like a scene in a rom-com" to "absolute disasters".

Many of her friends have met their partners online, and this knowledg has encouraged her keep perservering. But, when "conversations unexpectedlly fizzle, sparks don't translate in person [and] dates are cancelled", she typically ends up disenchanted and temporarily deletes her apps for couple of months.

It's a pattern many complaints about the app-based dating experience ranging from a lack of matches to too many matches, misleading profiles, safety concerns, racist comments and unwanted explicit content. Not to mention a host of digital behaviours so confusing we've had to make up new words for them, from ghosting and catfishing to pigging and orbiting.

While almost half adults under 35 living in the US and the UK have tried some form of digital dating, and the multibillion-dollar industry increased by 11% in North America between 2014 and the start of 2019, there are growing signs that many would rather not be using these methods. A BBC survey in 2018 found that dating apps are the least preferred way for 16- to 34-year-old Britons to meet someone new.

Academics also paying increased attention to the downsides of digital romance. A study in September concluded that compulsive app users can end up feeling lonelier tha they did in the first place. Management Science published a study on online dating in 2017 which highlighted the paradox of choice, noting that "increasing the number of potential matches has a positive effect due to larger choice, but also a negatibve effect due to competition between agents on the same side."

"You need a lot of swipes to get a match, a lot of matches to get a number, a lot of numbers to get a date and a lot of dates to get a third date," explains Scott Harvet, editor of Global Dating Insights, the online dating industry's trade news publication.

You need a lot of swipes to get a match, a lot of matches to ger a number, a lot of numbers to get a date and a lot of dates to get a third date - Scott Harvey

"Trying to find a partner in this way is extremely labour-intensive and can be quite exasperating," he says, adding that those working in the sector are highly aware that many consumers are no longer "completely enamoured" by apps like Tinder and Bumble.

While Julie Beck, a staff writer for The Atlantic, made waves with an article addressing the rise of dating app fatigue three years ago, 2019 stands out as the moment that deeper discussions about the downsides of dating apps and debates about the feasibility of going without them went mainstream. Millennial media from Glamour to Vice truly began shifting their focuse, US dating coach Camille Virginia released an advice book called The Offline Dating Method for those seeking to rid themselves of apps, and British broadcaster Verity Geere revealed how she went on a complete detox from sex and relationship after what she describes as eight years as an online "dating junkie" that failed to score her a long-term partner. Meanwhile research analytics firm eMarketer predicted a slowdown in user growth for mainstream online platforms, with more users switching between apps than new people entering the market.

Dating in the wild

Kamila Saramak, 30, a medical doctor living in the Polish capital, Warsaw, is among those who've taken the decision to go cold turky and focus on dating offline.

Several months after splitting up with ger partner of two years, she says she was "pretty much playing with Tinder every day," swiping through profile each morning and messaging matches while she had her breakfast. But after six months she realised it was impacting on her mental health.

"I was writing to them, I was meeting with and then they just disappeared," she says of many of her matches. "I was very lonely at that time...and it made me feel like Iwas worse than other people."

For others, deleting the apps been more about winning time back in their lives for other activities rather than a reaction to painful expriences.

"Most of the time, the girls didn't look like the pictures...and the conversation was unfortunately, most of the time absolutely uninteresting," says Leo Pierrard, 28, a French journalist living in Berlin. He stopped using dating apps for 18 months, before meeting his current partner on a trip to Paris.

"I think, definitely people are getting tired of it," agrees Linda Jonsson, a 27-year-old gym instructor from Stockholm. She says she used Tinder for two years and had a nine-month relationship with one person she met on the app, but deleted it for the foreseeable future earlier this year and remains single.

In her friendship circle, " good first dates" that don't lead to anything more serious are the most frequent irritation, which can, she says, feel like a waste of effort.

"It's was really fine for a couple of years just to try it out and see what happens. But more and more of my friends are actually just deleting them and going out the old-fashioned way just to find people."

Meanwhile meeting an unattached millennial who has never used a dating app is like searching for a needle in a haystack, but they do exist.

---------------------------------
108/12/20 Fri.

* Why is Sweden departing talented tech workers?

¡iRetaining highly-skilled foreign workers is essential for countries Sweden. But as a deported worker sues the state, the tech-savvy nation's rejection record is in the spotlight. By Maddy Savage, 17th December 2019.

He'd bought an apartment and a car, taken Swedish lessons, signed his toodler up for daycare and even improved his skiing to embrace the frozen temperatures. Yet more than three years after his family arrived in Sweden and despite his well-paid senior position at one of its most prestigious power and technology companies, Ali Omumi was asked to leave the country.

"For me it was a huge frustration, for my wife it was the beginning of a deep depression," laments the engineering sales specialist, who is originally from Iran.

Omumi, then 38, was given a final deportation order in 2018, after unsuccessfully appealing decision by the Swedish Migration Agency. Officials denied his application for a work permit extension based on an administrative mistake made by a software company he'd previously been employed by, which had failed to provide the correct insurances.

"Deportation gave me the feeling: I am a criminal' - while I know I am not. I came to work and pay taxes, and I brought my experience and money."

Swden's talent shortage

Sweden has a shortage of qualified graduates in subjects including engineering and programming, meaning employers are increasingly looking beyond national and EU borders in order to plug vacancies. Thousnands of skilled foreign workers move to the Nordic country each year and many decide they wnay to stay, thanks to a relatively strong economy and a high quality of life.

Work permits - required for non-EU workers - are initially linked to a specific job, but those wish to move companies can start new roles while they are waiting for their visa extensions to be processed. Yet hundreds of non-EU Workers like Ali have had their extension applications rejected on the basis of minor administrative mistakes made by former employers during their residency.

Alongside insurance issues, other errors that have led to deportation include incorrect pension payments, taking too little or too much holiday, or even scoring a job via LinkedIn that wasn't advertised by the Swedish Public Employment Service.

Swedes call these deportations kompetensutivising, which means the "expulsion of someone who has skills required in the labour market", and the issue is a long-running hot topic, expecially in its fast-expanding tech-scene. One Pakistani developer's deportation in 2016 sparked a petition signed by more than 10,000 people including Spotify's cofounder Daniel Ek, who later admitted that 15 of his company's top hires had been threa threatened with deportation.

*Many people...feel insecure about the legal system in Sweden. -Alexandra Loyd

Earlier this year the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce werned that the trend could damage the Swedish capital's econmy, while a local branch of Startup Grind, the world's largest independent start-up community organisation, held an event called Keep The Talent to protest against Sweden "dreining international talent". In March, the results of a major survey for The Diversify Foundation, a not-for-profit organisation which campaigns for a more inclusive labout market, found that 81% of non-EU workers who responded said their health or their family's health had been affected by the threat of deportation. Nearly  70% said they would not recommend Sweden as destination for foreign workers.

"We think that it has been harmful for Sweden's international reputation," says Alexandra Loyd, a lawyer for Centrum for Rattvisa, a not-for-profit public interest law firm which represents some of the affected workers. "Many people - workers or employers that are in contact with us - feel insecure about the legal system in Sweden."

The root of the  problem, she argues, is the Swedish Migration Agency's strict interpretation of a 2015 ruling made by the Migration Court of Appeal, which said that permits should not be extended feor workers whose emploitation by dishonest employers.

This is a cornerstone of working culture in Sweden, which has a long history of strong unions and strict agreements designed to protect employee's rights.

However, it's resulted in a spell of deportations of sought-after talent based on small adminsitrative errors. In 2017, more than 1,800 people had their work permit renewals rejected, although it is not possible to break down exactly how many of these were due to minor mistakes.

Limited progress

The situation has improved over the past two years, in part thanks to an amendment in the law, which allows employers to correct errors retroactively. Meanwhile a fresh decision by the Migration Court of Appeal in December 2017 ruled that there should be an "overall assessment" of each applicant's case in order to make more proportionate decisions, instead of automatically issuing rejections based on minor errors.

Per Ek, a spokesman for the agency, says he understands that some foreign workers end up "in a very difficult situation" if their visas are declined. But he insists that "overall assessment" method is largely "working quite smoothly" to limit the expulsions of skilled workers, while at the same time staying true to earlier legislation designed to protece workers across all industries.

" We are here for one clear reason. We have to make sure that the legislation or the lawe are fulfilled... and we are trying our best to inform everyone who's coming here, in different kind of languages - in English for sure - on what kind of languages - Englis for sure - on what kind of rules or requirements need to be fulfilled."

¡iI hope this lawsuit will push decision makers to design better legislation - Ali Omum¡j

So far, 550 people have had their work permits rejected in 2019, including around 50 working in skilled IT and programming roles, significantly fewer than in 2018 and 2017.

However lawyer Alexandra Loyd believes the agency still has the tendency to "stick to the rules" -rejecting cases where there is no legal precedent and waiting for these to be appealed in the courts, rather than looking at the bigger picture at the start of each visa renewal process. "There is a lack of foreseeability in the system and in the decisions form the Migration Agency," she argues.

Sales enginnering Ali Omumi is now back in Sweden where he has taken on a new role with former employer ABB. But securing his return was a long process. The Iranian temporarily relocated to Istanbul with his family while he looked for new opportunities in Sweden and elsewhere in northern Europe. He initially rented out the family's home, but was soon forced to sell it at below the market rate, after being being told he had hiring out their properties unless they have moved because of work, studies, sickness or to live with a partner or other relatives, none of which applied to Omumi.

---------------------------------
108/12/21 Sat.

*Is Sweden the best place to lose your job?

¡iBeing laid off from a job is never a pleasant experiencen, but Sweden's 'transition system' promises to do far more than just ger you back on your feet. By David Crouch, 20 th December 2019.

It is one of the most stressful things that can happen: getting laid off from your job. If you've experienced it, you know the panic it can cause - worries about income, career, and, in some countries, healthcare.

But what if being laid off turned out to be the best thing that ever happened to you?  And not thanks to goos luck, but because there was a system in place designed specifically to unlock your potential and ger you into a better job than before?

This is the promise of Sweden's unique 'transition system', a nationwide private welfare service for workers who have become recently unemployed due to redundancy. Companies pay into 'job security councils', which provide skilled coaches who pick you up, dust you down and match your skills and ambitions with the market. There are 16 of these organisations, each covering a differen t sector of the economy and tasked with finding new jobs for workers who have lost their jobs for economic reasons.

As a result, Sweden has the best re-employment rates in the developed world - about 90% of laid-off workers are back in work within a year, according to the OECD. This is drastically higher than France and Portugal, the OECD points out, which only place about 30% of workers within the year.

Eva, 24, recently discovered this for herself. She left college as a graphic in 2016. Her job in Stockholm was going well, and her career seemed to be off to a flying start. But in early 2019, the company announced that it would have to make cuts due to redundancies. The atmosphere at work turned soure, and her colleagued became anxious. She began to lose sleep her boyfriend noticed a marked change in her demeanour.

*The trick that makes you overspend

¡iEmploying the "decoy effect" could bend others to your will, improve your finances, and more. By David Robson, 2nd August 2019.

When you buy a cup of coffee, you might have noticed that of the three size options - small, medium and large - the medium-size serving often costs almost as much as the large. Given the apparent bargin, have you ever opted for the biggest and most expensive option?

If so, you have been nudged by a a cognitive bias known as the "dscoy effect", in which the deliberate presentataion of an additional, slightly less attractive option - in this case, the relatively expensive medium-sized coffee - pushes you to pay out more money than you would have rationally chosen. "If you frame options in a certain way, you can nudge people in the direction of higher-priced products," says Linda Chang, a psychologist at Harvard University.

The decoy effect was first investigated as a potential marketing strategy to influence consumer also have potent effects in recruitment, healthcare, even politics. It shows us just how easily out judgement is swayed by the context in which the facts are presented - even when that additional information may have no bearing on the overall judgement.

By learning about the decoy effect, you may become less susceptible to this unconscious influence. You may even discover ways to put it to your own use as a tool for persuasion.

Like many of the now infamous cognitive biases that plague our thinking, the decoy effect was first documentes in the 1980s, and the best way to understand these experiments is to consider an example.

Imagine you are chossing flights from the following options.

Flight A costs $400 with a stopover of 60 minutes.

Flight B costs $330 with a stopover of 150 minutes.

Flight C costs $435 with a stopover of 60 minutes.

In this case, the researchers found that most people would choose Flight A, since it is cheaper than Flight C, but with a shorter waiting time - even though it is considerably more expensive than B.

B.

Now look at a different set of flights:

Flight A costs $400 with a stopover of 60 minutes.

Flight B costs $330 with a stopover of 150 minutes.

Flight C costs $330 with a stopover of 195 minutes.
 
In this scenario, most people's preference is now Flight B.

Logically speaking, that makes no sense: B should be no more attractive now than in the first example because the waiting time and price are still exactly the same. But the change in Flight C - to have an even longer stopover - has altered the way the participants perceived the other possibilities, so that now they preferred to suffer a longer waiting time for a cheaper price.

In each case, Flight C - "the decoy" -was designed to appear similar to, but slightly less attractive boosts the target's perceived desirability. Experiments examming choices such as these have found the use of a well-designed decoy such as this can shift opinion between the other two options by as much by the way they are framed.

Crucially, as the first scenarior shows, this placement of a dud option can even mean that the the consumer is willing to pay more money - making the decoy effect of very keen interest to marketers.

Psychologists still debate the exact reasons for this particular effect, but one idea is that the comparison with the decoy offers us an easy justification for an otherwise arbitrary decision. If you were to compare just A and B, it's hard to know exactly how to appraise the trade-offs between costs and waiting time - how much obviously better than the decoy - Flight C - on one of those measures, you have a ready-made reason to explain your preference.

These patterns of behaviour have been observed for many different kinds of goods - from beer to TVs, cars and houses: an unattractive third option change people's preferences between the two other possibilities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
---------------------------------
108/12/23 Mon.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    *Germany's tiny geographic tiny geographic oddity. By Larrt Bleiberg, 23 September 2019.

This year, we published many indpiring and amazing stories the made us fall in love with the world - and this is one our favourites. Click here for the full list).

On 1 August, Switzerland's National Day, summer holidaymakers are out in force. Flotillas of rafts and canoes bob along the Rhine River, sunbathers lay out on the grassy shore, and on the largely empty streets an occasional public bus rumbles by, decorated for the festivities with Switzerland's familiar red flag with a white cross.

It's a perfect holiday scene, except for one nagging detail. All this merrymaking marking the anniversary of Switzerland's confederation is taking place in Germany.

"To make holiday here, it's attractive," explained Roland Guntert, deputy mayor of the town of Busingen am H

*Unst: A real life Treasure Island. By Karen Gardiner, 10 December 2019.

From the northern tip of Unst, Shetland - the UK's most northerly island - a dramatic view comes into sight. Encircled by gannets, the tiny isle of Muckle Flugga rises sheer out of the North Sea. Perched atop its serrated rocks, pointing upwards like a single candle stuck into a birthday cake and marking the end of the UK like an exclamation mark, ring of pale yellow - that identifies it as a Stevenson lighthouse.

The Scottish author Robert Louis Stevenson would have been familiar with this view. As a young man in 1869, he accompanied his father, the pioneering lighthouse engineering Thomas Stevenson, on a visit to Unst and Muckle Flugga to inspect the lighthouse that Thomas and his brother David had started building in 1854. The brothers each designed more than 30 lighthouses around Scotland's coasts; Robert Louis was expected to follow his family into lighthouse engineering, and this trip was part of his preliminiary education.

"They sailed around the east coast lights," writes Bella Bathurst in The Lighthouse Stevensons, her biography of three generations of the Stevenson family, who all built beacons, "up to Scapa Flow and then to Muckle Flugga." She continued, "But [Robert] Louis seemed far more interested in the scenery than he was in the lights."

Robert Louis never did become a lighthouse engineering, but legend has it that his visit to the area inspired his classic tale of adventure, Treasure Island, published in 1883.

You may also be interested in:

*The British island that's not in the UK

*What unicorns mean to Scottish identity

*The renaissance of Northern Ireland's forgotten 'seafood'

Few records remain of Stevenson's visit, beside his brief entry in the visitor;s book for North Unst Lighthouse (as it was then known), which states simply: "R L Stevenson, Edinburgh, 19 June 1869". But the association is a plausible story: look at the fictional map of Treasure Island - describle in the book as "like a fat dragon standing up" - and you'd be unable to miss its resemblance to that of Unst, an outline Stevenson would have seen on tha maps used by the lighthous engineers while salling around Unst's coast to the rocks of Muckle Flugga.

[Robert] Louis seemed far more interested in the scenery than he was in the lights

I'd heard of the Treasure Island association before I came to Unst, and sitting there at what felt like the wind-battered edge of the world, it was easy to understand how Unst xould so inspire the imagination. It's a place that lies at the furthest edge of the UK, colser to Torshavn, Oslon, and the Arctic Circle than to London, Unst's association with the book was't why I'd come - I've long been drawn to far northern island - but it intrigued me enough to pick up a copy of Treasure Island before I set out. Re-reading the book, I wondered if, when I'd first read it as a young girl, it was where I had found my love of the remote edges of the world.

Early on, waiting to begin his voyage to Treasure Island, Stevenson's protagonist tells of "brooding" over the map he'd discovered in an old sea captaiin's chest, "full of sea dreams and the most charming anticipations of strange island and adventures". These are words that could surely inspire even a committed landlubber to set for far-flung shores.

My own jounery to Unst was easy. In the Shetlandic capital of Lerwick, where I'd disembarked after an overnight ferry Aberdeen, I boarded a bus and was delivered to my destination two and a half hours later. Shetland may be sparsely populated, but it has an extensive bus network that efficiently links up with its ferries. After leaving my bag at a youth hostel that occupies an old Royal Air Force station, I set out on foot for Hermaness National Nature Reserve. Scottish Natural Heritage, the public body that manages the reserve, describes Hermaness in summer as "the New York of the seabird world:a noisy, bustling and often smelly metropolis that is home to more than 100,000 bredding seabirds".

---------------------------------
108/12/24 Tue.

*The trick that makes you overspend.

¡iEmploying the "decoy effect" could bend others to your will, improvement your finances, and more. By David Robson, 2nd August 2019.

As we head into 2020, we're running the best, most insightful and most essential Worklife stories from 2019. Read all of the year's biggest hits here.

When you buy a cup of coffee, you might have noticed that of the three size options - small, medium and large - the medium-sized serving often costs almost as much as the large. Given the apparent bargain, have you ever opted for the biggest and most expensive option ?

If so, you have been nudged by a cognitive bias known as the "decoy effect", in which the deliberate presentation of an additional, slightly less attractive option - in this case, the relatively expensive medium-sized coffee - pushes you to pay out more money than you would have rationally chosen. "If you frame options in a certain way, you can nudge people in the direction of higher-priced products," says Linda Chang, a psychologist at Harvard University.

The decoy effect was firsr invetigated as a potential marketing strategy to influence consumer choices such as this, but the latest research shows that it could also have potent effects in recruitment, healthcare, even politics. It shows us just how easily our judgement is swayed by the context in which the facts are presented - even when that additional information may have no bearing on the overall judgement.

By learning about the decoy effect, you may become less susceptible to this unconscious influence. You may even discover ways to put it to your own use as a tool for persuasion.

Like many of the now infamous cognitive biases that plague our thinking, the decoy effect was first documented in the 1980s, and the best way to understand there experiments is to consider an example.

Imagine you are choosing flights from the following options.

Logically speaking, that makes no sense: B should be no more attractive now than in the first example because the waiting time and price are still exactly the same. But the change in Flight C - to have an even longer stopover - has altered the way the participants perceived the other possibilities, so that now they preferred to suffer a longer waiting time for a cheaper price.

In each case, Flight C - "the decoy" - was designed to appear similar to, but slightly less attractive than one of the other options (the "target"). And that comparison boosts the target's perceived desirability. Experiments examming choices such as these have found the use of a well-designed decoy such as this can shift opinion between the other two options by as much as 40% - showing just how easily our decisions can be swayed by the way they are framed.

Crucially, as the first scenario shows, this placement of a dud option can even mean that the consumer is willing to pay more money - making the decoy effect of very keen interest to marketers.

Psychologists still debate the exact reasons for this particular effect, but one idea is that the comparison with the decoy offers us an easy justification for an otherwise arbitrary decision. If you were to compare just A and B, it's hard to known exactly how to appraise the trade-offs between cost and waiting time - how to appraise the trade-offs between cost and waiting time - how much money is 90 minutes' extra wait really worth? But if one option is obviously better than the decoy - Flight C - on one of those measures, you have a ready-made reason to explain your preference.

These patterns of behaviour have been observed for many different kinds of goods - from beer to TVs, cars and houses: an unattractive third option changes people's preferences between the two other possibilities.

In his book, Predictably Irrational, Dan Ariely described how The Economist uses a decoy effect to encourage readers to opt for a more expensive subscription for just %59, a print subscrtption for $125 and a third option of a combined print and online subscription for the same price - $125. The print-only choice here is clearly a decoy, since it offers less than the print and online package for the same price, but Arily found that its mere presence substantially increased uptake of the combined subscription (rather than the digital only). Indeed, when only two options were available, readers were 53%  more likely to go for the much cheaper online-only option, compared to a choice involving a third decoy.

The decoy effect may also be rife in sales of high-end goods. A recent paper from the University of British Columbia has documented the influence of the decoy effect on the diamond market, finding that the presence of slightly inferior, but equally ecpensive products can contribute more than 20% of the retailers' profits.

Not everyone is equally susceptible to the decoy effect. In line with the research on other cognitive biases, the researchers have found that it depends on your thinking style. Questionnaires, for instance, can determine whether some people are more prone to listening to their gut feelings, or whether they are more analytical and prefer deliberative reasoning. (It is the more intuitive thinkers who are most likely to be swayed by a decoy.)

Interestingly, hormones can play a part in that: higher levels of testosterone, for instance, tend to make people more impulsive, which means thet are more susceptible to the decoy men as the "rational sex" is completely unfounded). The decoy effect is also prevalent in group decision making - we can't rely on others to debias our thinking.

Besides identifying who is more or less vulnerable, scientists have also explored the decoy effect in different circumstances, besides consumer decisions. Ariely, for instance, has found that it might be present in dating, According to his research, we tend to fancy someone more if they appear alongside a "decoy" who is similar looking, but slightly less attractive. That's worth remembering if you are flicking through profile on Tinder - your perceptions of someone's attractiveness depend on who came before or after.




























                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  







































































